{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red76\green190\blue218;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12680\viewh24200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs60 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Opinion: Playing politics with the English language in Puerto Rico
\fs30 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl312\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 There is something fierce and delicious, almost edible, in the alchemic ways of Puerto Rican Spanish. Boricuas don\'92t merely speak their very own brand of the language of Cervantes with an aspired \'93s,\'94 a nasal \'93n\'94 and a guttural \'93r.\'94 more They seem to channel Al-Andaluz and Africa with every inflection and sound. They dance with words that melt into each other, producing a beautiful melody of elliptical patterns.\
\

\i Los puertorrique\'f1os estaban acostumbrados a transitar de isla en isla y de continente en continente como aves cuya condici\'f3n natural era tr\'e1nsito. 
\i0 \
\
Every exchange, transcendent or mundane, is capable of unleashing the full potency of their spirit like a tropical hurricane. The sons and daughters of the Enchanted Island speak with their entire bodies, loud, passionate and unapologetic. Rhythm and attitude are part of the message. Laugh, gesture, slang and humor are all ingredients of a good quotidian interaction if you are in Puerto Rico.\
\

\i La lengua de una persona era algo m\'e1s profundo que la religi\'f3n o el orgullo tribal. Era una ra\'edz que penetraba muy adentro del cuerpo, y nadie sab\'eda en realidad d\'f3nde terminaba. Estaba conectada a la garganta, al cuello, al est\'f3mago, qui\'e9n sabe al mismo coraz\'f3n.}